What happens when you initialize a repository? Why do you need to do it?

When a repository is initialised, a .git folder containing the meta data of the repository is created. It is necessary for being able to change a normal folder to a git repository.

How is the staging area different from the working directory and the repository? What value do you think it offers?

Staging area contains the group of files to be commited together. It helps in commiting multiple files into same commit. Working directory contains the files in the repository. It might also contain other files untracked by the repository. Repository is the set of files tracked by git.

How can you use the staging area to make sure you have one commit per logical change?

Staging area is useful to seperate files for different logical changes. Different set of files might make up a logical change. with staging area one can just choose the files corresponding to a logical change to be commited.

What are some situations when branches would be helpful in keeping your history organized? How would branches help?

Branches will be useful when multiple versions of a program is developed from same base version. It would be more logical and sensible than reverting back to previous versions and starting the development again when a new version of program needs to be developed. Logically all the new versions are an increment from the base version rather than from each other. This topology is achieved by git branch.

How do the diagrams help you visualize the branch structure?

Diagram visually shows how each of the commits are realted to previous ones, and which commits are tracked by each branch. It also identifies any untracked commits which cannot be checked out in case the commit id is not noted.

What is the result of merging two branches together? Why do we represent it in the diagram the way we do?

Merging two branches creates files which include the changes made in both the branches. It is represented in the diagram indicating that the most recent commit of each branch is the parent for the new commit merged branch.